When looking at both programs it is very easy to see that there are many differences between c++ and python. 

The biggest visual difference that most see is that python does not require types to be explicitly stated when creating variables. This is because python is a dynamically type language. C++, in contrast, is a statically typed language, and requires programmers to explicitly state the data type of variables when they are declared.
This difference is shown on line 7 in the python file and line 16 in the c++ file. Both programs declare a variable named "userInput" that will hold the string input from the user. C++ requires "string" to be present before the variable declaration, while python does not.

This brings us to our next difference; c++ is a pre-compiled language, while python runs through an interpreter. This means that statements in python are executed line by line during run time. With c++, however, the entire program is compiled and then made into an executable file which can then be ran. When compiled, the c++ code is translated into machine code which is understood by the cpu.
This difference was evident when I was writing the programs for each language. While implementing the c++ program, the entire file had to be error free in order for the program to output the "Enter a word to check if it is a palindrome: ". When writing the python program I had a syntax error in the function definition of isPalindrome, but the program was still outputting the message. The program would only throw the error when the isPalindrome function was called. 

A third difference between the two languages is that python supports garbage collection while c++ does not. Garbage collection is an automatic memory management process that recycles memory without the programmer having to do so manually. Garbage collection can be very useful and prevent memory leaks and double free errors (my least favorite kind of error). 

Another large difference between the two languages is simply the difference between length of programs. When writing the code for both languages I used the same psuedocode for both implementations to make the comparison valid (there were ways to make the python program even shorter using different libraries). Although the process is the same for both programs, the python program is only 14 lines of code, while the c++ version is 29 lines. Python is known to be a much easier language to learn compared to c++ since it is very similar to reading english. An example is shown in line 7 of the python program. The variable userInput is declared, words are outputted to the console, input from the console is taken, and the variable is assigned that input all in a single line of code. In the c++ program, it requires 3 lines to complete these steps. 
